RHIDP-12593: Support pluginDivisionMode: schema for Single Database Deployments (#2099)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/configure_configuring-rhdh/proc-configure-schema-based-plugin-isolation-to-simplify-single-database-provisioning.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="configure-schema-based-plugin-isolation-to-simplify-single-database-provisioning_{context}"]
= Configure schema-based plugin isolation to simplify single-database provisioning

[role="_abstract"]

> To manage plugins on a database service without `CREATEDB` privileges, configure schema division mode. This setting enables all plugins to share a single PostgreSQL database by assigning each plugin its own unique schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure schema-based plugin isolation to support database users without `CREATEDB` privileges or to simplify database provisioning. Each {product-very-short} plugin uses its own PostgreSQL schema within a single shared database.
```

Suggestion to following the exact [why] + [what] pattern from the [SSG guidelines](https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#shortdesc).

Author: done

.Prerequisites

* An external PostgreSQL instance is configured using the Operator or the Helm chart. 
* Your database user has `CREATE SCHEMA` privileges on the target database, or your database administrator will create the required schemas.

[NOTE]
====
By default, when `pluginDivisionMode` is set to `schema`, {product-very-short} automatically creates the required schemas because the `ensureExists` configuration defaults to `true`. The database user must have `CREATE SCHEMA` privileges on the target database.
====

.Procedure

> . Add `pluginDivisionMode: schema` to the `backend.database` section of your {product-very-short} configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add `pluginDivisionMode: schema` to the `backend.database` section of your {product-very-short} configuration in the `app-config-rhdh` ConfigMap:
```

Author: done

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="enable-plug-in-division-mode-schema_{context}"]
= Enable plug-in division mode schema 

[role="_abstract"]
Configure the `backend.database` block in `app-config.local.yaml` to enable the plug-in division mode for database schema division.

> 

Reviewer 2: now thinking just above the **NOTE** lets add a small prerequisite:

> .Prerequisites
> 
> - You have configured an external PostgreSQL instance using the `Operator` or the `Helm chart`.                                                                                         
> - Your database user has `CREATE SCHEMA` privileges on the target database, or your database administrator will pre-create the required schemas.

Reviewer 2: thanks

Author: done
